<html>
<head>
<title>Federal Register, Volume 89 Issue 112 (Monday, June 10, 2024)</title>
</head>
<body><pre>
[Federal Register Volume 89, Number 112 (Monday, June 10, 2024)]
[Rules and Regulations]
[Pages 48827-48838]
From the Federal Register Online via the Government Publishing Office [<a href="http://www.gpo.gov">www.gpo.gov</a>]
[FR Doc No: 2024-12491]


=======================================================================
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

Bureau of the Fiscal Service

31 CFR Part 223

[Docket No. FISCAL-2021-0006]
RIN 1530-AA20


Surety Companies Doing Business With the United States

AGENCY: Fiscal Service, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Treasury.

ACTION: Final rule.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

SUMMARY: This final rule amends the regulations of the Department of 
the Treasury, Bureau of the Fiscal Service (Treasury), regarding the 
corporate Federal surety bond program (the program). Treasury is 
amending its regulations to allow for recognition of additional 
companies as reinsurers. Treasury is also amending its regulations to 
incorporate requirements, previously published in supplemental guidance 
documents, for surety companies to submit information that Treasury 
uses to perform financial analysis of these companies. Treasury is also 
reorganizing the existing regulations to modernize and improve their 
structure.

DATES: This final rule is effective August 9, 2024.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Melvin Saunders at 
<a href="/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#9cf1f9f0eaf5f2b2effde9f2f8f9eeefdcfaf5effffdf0b2e8eef9fdefe9eee5b2fbf3ea"><span class="__cf_email__" data-cfemail="04696168726d6a2a7765716a6061767744626d776765682a707661657771767d2a636b72">[email&#160;protected]</span></a> or 304-480-5108; Bobbi McDonald at 
<a href="/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#6c0e030e0e0542010f0803020d00082c0a051f0f0d0042181e090d1f191e15420b031a"><span class="__cf_email__" data-cfemail="77151815151e591a14131819161b1337111e0414161b59030512160402050e59101801">[email&#160;protected]</span></a> or 304-480-7098; or David Crowe at 
<a href="/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#a5c1c4d3ccc18bc6d7cad2c0e5c3ccd6c6c4c98bd1d7c0c4d6d0d7dc8bc2cad3"><span class="__cf_email__" data-cfemail="5e3a3f28373a703d2c31293b1e38372d3d3f32702a2c3b3f2d2b2c2770393128">[email&#160;protected]</span></a> or 304-480-8971.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:

I. Background

    Treasury administers the corporate Federal surety bond program, 
which issues certificates of authority to authorized surety companies, 
analyzes the financial statements of applicant and authorized companies 
to ensure compliance, and publishes lists of companies holding a 
certificate authority. Treasury also reviews applications by companies 
to become admitted reinsurers, i.e., companies permitted by Treasury to 
provide reinsurance to certified sureties except on excess risks that 
run to the United States. Treasury administers the program pursuant to 
31 CFR part 223 (part 223) and publishes supplemental guidance on its 
website.
    Treasury published a request for information (RFI) on December 30, 
2019.\1\ The RFI sought public input on a variety of topics relating to 
Treasury's evaluation of surety companies, as well as the operations of 
the corporate Federal surety bond program. These topics included, among 
other things, Treasury's financial analysis methodology, its rules 
regarding credit for reinsurance, and the documentation it requires to 
perform its review of companies seeking designation and renewal as 
certified sureties or admitted reinsurers. The public comments 
informed, in part, Treasury's development of this rulemaking.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \1\ 84 FR 72138.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    On March 3, 2022, Treasury published a notice of proposed 
rulemaking (NPRM) at 87 FR 12003 to propose amendments to part 223, 
which implements the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 9304-9308. The NPRM 
proposed two main amendments to part 223. First, the NPRM proposed to 
add two new categories of reinsurance companies that can receive 
recognition from Treasury: complementary reinsurers and alien 
reinsurers. The proposed amendments would allow Treasury-certified 
surety companies to receive credit for reinsurance ceded to these 
companies with reduced or zero collateral, and would also allow 
complementary or alien reinsurers to reinsure excess risks of certified 
surety companies not running to the United States. Second, Treasury 
proposed amending 31 CFR 223.9 to describe in greater detail the 
financial analysis it performs related to companies applying for a 
certificate of authority or renewal of a certificate of authority and 
to incorporate certain requirements previously published in the 
program's annual and supplemental guidance. Additionally, Treasury 
proposed various amendments to part 223 to reorganize and modernize the 
structure of the regulations.
    Treasury received 13 comment letters from a cross-section of 
entities associated with the surety industry and other stakeholders. 
Seven of the comment letters were from surety companies or reinsurers, 
three were from surety or insurance trade associations, one was from a 
law firm that represents surety companies, one was from a coalition of 
environmental groups, and one was from an anonymous individual. 
Treasury has considered the comments and addresses them below.

II. Analysis of Comments

    The public comments were generally supportive of the NPRM's 
proposed changes to add new categories of reinsurers eligible for 
Treasury recognition, to add more detailed information regarding 
Treasury's financial analysis, and to update and modernize the 
structure of the surety regulations. Treasury did not receive any 
comments expressing disagreement with the key objectives described 
above. Several of the favorable comments regarding Treasury's proposal 
to add new categories of reinsurers eligible for Treasury recognition 
noted that these changes would benefit the surety industry as a whole 
by lowering the regulatory burden on surety companies and increasing 
the reinsurance capacity available to Treasury-certified surety 
companies. Commenters also concurred with the NPRM that these changes 
would not increase the risk to the Federal Government of surety 
companies being unable to carry out their obligations.
    A surety company commented that smaller and medium-sized surety 
companies, which typically have a lower underwriting limit than larger 
firms, might particularly benefit from greater access to international 
reinsurance without the posting of collateral under the proposal to 
recognize additional reinsurers. The same commenter also noted that 
these changes could lower the price of surety bonds in the marketplace, 
which could not only benefit smaller and medium-sized surety companies 
but also benefit smaller and minority-owned contractors who frequently 
obtain surety bonds from smaller or mid-sized surety companies. Thus, 
in the view of the commenter, the proposed changes could make it easier 
for small, minority-owned contractors to bid on construction projects 
for the Federal Government.

[[Page 48828]]

    Some commenters, while expressing support for the NPRM generally, 
suggested changes or clarifications, as discussed below.

A. Categories of Reinsurers

    Two commenters suggested that the NPRM's definition of the two new 
categories of reinsurers--complementary reinsurers and alien 
reinsurers--should be expanded to include additional reinsurers that 
are recognized under state laws that are based on the National 
Association of Insurance Commissioners' (NAIC) Credit for Reinsurance 
Model Law (Model 785) and Model Regulation (Model 786). Under the NPRM, 
to be recognized as a complementary reinsurer, a company must be from a 
non-U.S. jurisdiction that is subject to an in-force Covered Agreement, 
among other requirements. A ``Covered Agreement'' is an agreement, as 
described in Sec.  223.12(i), regarding prudential matters with respect 
to the business of insurance or reinsurance between the United States 
and one or more foreign authorities, entered into pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 
313-314.
    Per the NPRM, the company must also be recognized by at least one 
U.S. state as a Reciprocal Jurisdiction Reinsurer. A ``Reciprocal 
Jurisdiction'' is a jurisdiction that meets one of the following: (1) a 
non-U.S. jurisdiction that is subject to an in-force Covered Agreement 
with the United States, (2) a U.S. jurisdiction that meets the 
requirements for accreditation under the NAIC financial standards and 
accreditation program, or (3) a Qualified Jurisdiction, as defined by 
state law that is based on the NAIC Credit for Reinsurance Model Law 
(Model 785) and Model Regulation (Model 786), which meets certain 
additional requirements. A ``Reciprocal Jurisdiction Reinsurer'' is a 
reinsurer with its head office in or domicile in a Reciprocal 
Jurisdiction and which meets all capital and surplus, solvency, and 
market conduct requirements under state law based on the 2019 
Amendments to the NAIC Credit for Reinsurance Model Law and Model 
Regulation.
    To be recognized by Treasury as an alien reinsurer, the NPRM 
provided that a company must be from a non-U.S. jurisdiction that is 
recognized by state law and the NAIC as a Qualified Jurisdiction or as 
a Reciprocal Jurisdiction, provided the Reciprocal Jurisdiction is not 
party to an in-force Covered Agreement, among other requirements. A 
``Qualified Jurisdiction'' is a jurisdiction determined by a state 
insurance supervisor to have appropriate and effective supervision of 
reinsurance and which meets other requirements defined in state law. 
The NAIC also publishes a list of Qualified Jurisdictions. The NPRM 
also required the company to be recognized by at least one state as a 
Certified Reinsurer or Reciprocal Jurisdiction Reinsurer. A ``Certified 
Reinsurer'' is a reinsurer from a Qualified Jurisdiction that meets the 
requirements of the state insurance laws and regulations based on the 
NAIC models.
    The two commenters pointed out that these definitions of 
complementary reinsurer and alien reinsurer excluded some reinsurers 
eligible for recognition at the state level, namely reinsurers referred 
to as Accredited Reinsurers under the NAIC Credit for Reinsurance Model 
Law and Model Regulation. Under state law based on these models, an 
``Accredited Reinsurer'' is a reinsurer meeting specific conditions, 
which allow it to receive accreditation from the state and to assume 
reinsurance from U.S. reinsurers. The commenters suggested that 
Treasury clarify whether the definitions of the new categories of 
reinsurers include Accredited Reinsurers and, if not, consider 
expanding the definitions to include such companies.
    The NPRM's goal in expanding the types of reinsurers eligible for 
recognition was to ease the administrative burden on surety companies 
by allowing them to use additional reinsurers that meet Treasury's 
financial strength and market conduct requirements and that are from 
jurisdictions with sufficient regulatory regimes, as well as by 
incorporating greater harmony with state regulation. Treasury agrees 
with the commenters that allowing recognition of Accredited Reinsurers 
would further this goal, provided that they meet Treasury's other 
requirements. The final rule therefore includes revisions in Sec.  
223.12(d) and (j) to clarify that a company recognized as an Accredited 
Reinsurer by a U.S. state is eligible to be recognized by Treasury as 
an alien reinsurer. Note that under Sec.  223.11(b)(2), that if a 
company, including an Accredited Reinsurer, seeking recognition as an 
alien reinsurer is required by its U.S. state of domicile to provide 
100 percent collateral in order for its ceding insurers to obtain full 
credit for reinsurance, then that company is not eligible to reinsure a 
surety company's excess risk pursuant to Sec.  223.11(b). Such a 
company may only be used by a surety company to receive credit for 
reinsurance pursuant to Sec.  223.9(c) and must provide the same level 
of collateral as called for under state law. This change is being made 
to highlight and codify Treasury's existing policy that companies 
cannot rely on collateral for both credit for reinsurance and 
limitations of excess risks.

B. Admitted Assets

    One commenter suggested that the NPRM adopt an approach towards 
``admitted assets'' set forth in the NAIC's Accounting Practices and 
Procedures Manual, which all 50 states have adopted. However, Treasury 
does not intend to adopt the approach utilized by the NAIC. Adoption of 
that approach would limit Treasury's discretionary authority to reject 
an asset in the limited circumstances where it determines that such a 
rejection may be warranted. The NPRM codifies into the surety 
regulations, in 31 CFR 223.9, several provisions regarding Treasury's 
admissibility and valuation of assets that previously were only 
contained in the program's annual guidance, while also retaining the 
ability for Treasury to value a company's assets and liabilities in its 
discretion.

C. Letters of Credit

    One commenter suggested that Treasury update the NPRM to allow for 
irrevocable, unconditional, evergreen letters of credit to be used to 
protect risks underwritten in excess of a surety company's underwriting 
limit. Treasury has had a longstanding policy, which the NPRM proposed 
to codify at Sec.  223.9(e)(2), of allowing surety companies to use 
letters of credit to obtain credit for reinsurance, under certain 
circumstances. Treasury has reservations, however, about allowing 
letters of credit to be used to protect excess risks (i.e., those risk 
that exceed the company's underwriting limit). Historically, companies 
attempting to rely on letters of credit for such a purpose have not 
been able to demonstrate to Treasury that the assets referred to in the 
letter of credit are set aside by the issuer solely for the exclusive 
use of protecting the particular excess risk. This means that Treasury 
has been unable to verify that the companies could actually rely on the 
assets referred to in the letter of credit if the companies need to pay 
a claim on the excess risk. Accordingly, Treasury declines to amend 
Sec.  223.11 to allow for the blanket usage of irrevocable, 
unconditional, evergreen letters of credit to protect excess risks. 
However, Treasury may consider, on a case-by-case basis, allowing a 
surety company to use a letter of credit for such purpose if Treasury 
can verify that the assets referenced in the letter are

[[Page 48829]]

pledged exclusively to secure the excess risk--that is, if the assets 
references in the letter of credit cannot be drawn upon for any other 
purpose--and if the letter of credit meets other requirements Treasury 
might prescribe. A modification to Sec.  223.11(c)(1) has been made 
reflecting this clarification.

D. Underwriting Limitation

    Another commenter recommended that Treasury alter the way it 
calculates the underwriting limitation for certified surety companies. 
The commenter stated that Treasury's current method, which sets the 
limit at 10 percent of a company's surplus as determined by Treasury, 
is outdated and may adversely impact monoline surety companies. The 
letter proposes that Treasury adopt an approach that would set a surety 
company's underwriting limit based on its risk-based capital. The 
existing underwriting limitation is one of Treasury's most important 
tools in ensuring that the sureties it certifies are able to carry out 
their contracts, and Treasury's longstanding method of determining the 
underwriting limitation has worked well in accomplishing this goal. A 
national association of surety companies responded to the RFI that 
Treasury published on December 31, 2019, strongly encouraging Treasury 
not to change its method of calculating the underwriting limitation 
because of the strong safeguard it provides to the Federal Government. 
While the NPRM relies on certain risk-based approaches, Treasury 
believes the existing limitation is appropriate and beneficial.

E. Eligibility

    One commenter requested that Treasury reconsider a provision of the 
NPRM regarding companies that only insure or reinsure risks of their 
parent, affiliated, or controlled unaffiliated business, or that are 
deemed by Treasury to be primarily engaged in self-insurance. Sections 
223.1(c) and 223.12(e) of the proposed rules codified Treasury's 
longstanding policy that such companies are not eligible to obtain a 
certificate of authority, nor for recognition as a reinsurer. As noted 
in the NPRM, these types of companies cannot provide the documentation 
required by Treasury to evaluate them consistent with its standards. 
Treasury acknowledges the alternative view offered by this commenter, 
but continues to believe its existing policy is in the best interests 
of the surety program. Accordingly, Treasury is adopting these 
provisions of the rule as proposed.

F. Small Business Administration Surety Bond Guarantee Program

    One commenter suggested that Treasury consider a surety's admission 
in the Small Business Administration's (SBA) Surety Bond Guarantee 
program to serve as an alternative to reinsurance under the program's 
requirements. SBA's Surety Bond Guarantee program is not intended to be 
akin to reinsurance for companies admitted into Treasury's surety bond 
program. Given the different purposes of the two programs, it would not 
be appropriate to treat the SBA Surety Bond Guarantee program as 
reinsurance for this purpose. Accordingly, Treasury declines to adopt 
the recommendation in this comment.

G. Risk Analysis

    One comment letter suggested that Treasury make additional 
amendments unrelated to the substance of the changes proposed in the 
NPRM that would, in the view of the commenters, allow Treasury to 
better consider potential risk posed by ``the aggregate of all 
currently-issued bonds'' of a particular surety. The letter asserts 
that in certain sectors, a small number of surety companies have issued 
bonds that, in the aggregate, exceed each company's ability to pay, 
creating a risk that these surety companies will go bankrupt if the 
obligees on the bonds undertake forfeiture of the bonds. Accordingly, 
the letter asks that Treasury consider revisions to part 223 that would 
analyze a surety's aggregate risk when determining whether a surety 
qualifies for certification, and that Treasury impose an underwriting 
limitation on the aggregate risk of all bonds issued by a given surety. 
The letter also asks, should Treasury decline to make such changes, 
that Treasury clarify that it neither considers nor places limits on 
aggregate risk when evaluating sureties. The letter also addresses 
certain regulatory matters that are beyond the scope of the surety bond 
program.
    The substance of these proposed changes is beyond the scope of 
those proposed by the NPRM. Accordingly, Treasury does not express an 
opinion on the letter's proposed amendments to the regulations. 
Nevertheless, for clarity, Treasury notes that there are multiple ways, 
in addition to its requirement that companies report bonds in excess of 
their underwriting limitation, by which Treasury ensures that a surety 
is not underwriting bonds in excess of its ability to pay. For example, 
Treasury's financial analysis, now codified in more detail in part 223 
through this rulemaking, encompasses a robust review of a surety's 
financial statements. This review includes a detailed analysis by 
Treasury of the surety company's reinsurance portfolio via the Treasury 
Schedule F. And although a surety company reports excess risks to 
Treasury on a per-bond basis, the Schedule of Excess Risks form that 
each company submits gives Treasury insight into the overall risk 
profile of each company and the adequacy of protective measures taken 
by the company. Additionally, Treasury requires surety companies to 
report on a quarterly basis the penal sum of all Federal surety bonds 
(not just those bonds in excess of the companies' underwriting limits) 
written and outstanding as of the close of the reporting period, 
including identifying the types of surety bonds being written (e.g., 
customs, reclamation, construction contract) and the agency obligee. 
All of these tools provide Treasury with the means to evaluate risks 
from a surety company, which could result in a deeper analysis of the 
company and potential non-renewal of its certificate of authority.

III. Additional Changes

    In addition to the changes made in response to comments, discussed 
above, Treasury made a number of changes to the final rule text in 
Sec. Sec.  223.2, 223.3, 223.5, 223.7, 223.8, 223.9, 223.10, 223.11, 
223.12, 223.16, and 223.22 that were not specified in the NPRM. These 
changes are clarifying, technical, or nonsubstantive and are made in 
furtherance of the purposes described in the NPRM.
    Treasury updated the application requirements in Sec.  
223.2(a)(5)(i) to clarify that when applying for a certificate of 
authority companies must also report significant changes in operations 
or corporate structure that might impact their financial statements. 
Treasury routinely asks for this information in the application process 
and is now codifying it with the other application requirements. 
Treasury added a similar requirement in Sec.  223.12(h)(1)(ix) to apply 
to applications for recognition as an admitted reinsurer.
    In Sec.  223.3(a), Treasury removed the phrase ``at the company's 
expense'' from the provision that Treasury may require companies to 
submit additional information when making decisions to issue or renew 
certificates of authority. Treasury made this edit for consistency with 
other provisions of part 223 that state Treasury may require additional 
information but do not specify that doing so is at the company's 
expense. Treasury believes it is self-evident that companies are 
responsible for the expense of submitting any required

[[Page 48830]]

additional information, and therefore removed that clause from Sec.  
223.3 to avoid any confusion as to why the requirement was not 
mentioned elsewhere.
    Treasury made edits in Sec. Sec.  223.2(a) and (b) and 222.12(h) 
through (j), to remove ``receipt or proof of payment'' as part of the 
application requirements. In the time since Treasury published the 
NPRM, Treasury has updated its processes whereby it no longer requires 
applicant companies to submit a receipt or other proof of payment for 
Treasury to verify that the companies have paid the required fees.
    In Sec. Sec.  223.2(a) and (b), 223.8(a), and 223.12(h) Treasury 
added a requirement that companies provide the NAIC file upload when 
submitting their annual or quarterly financial statements. Companies 
have submitted their statements via the text file upload for many 
years, so Treasury wanted to clarify these sections to remove any doubt 
that the companies should continue to do so.
    Treasury made an additional edit to the application requirements in 
Sec.  223.2(b) to clarify that a Schedule of Excess Risks form is 
submitted as of the close of the preceding quarter, not the preceding 
year.
    In Sec. Sec.  223.2(b) and 223.8, Treasury corrected the name of 
the form utilized by companies to report Federal business written and 
outstanding.
    Treasury also made edits to Sec.  223.9(c)(2) to reflect its 
practice that companies must submit sufficient documentation before 
receiving credit for reinsurance to the extent of funds withheld, trust 
agreements, or letters of credit. Treasury also made an edit in this 
paragraph to conform with a similar statement previously published in 
supplemental guidance that Treasury's allowance of credit in these 
circumstances is discretionary.
    Treasury removed language in Sec.  223.11 describing the 
requirements for Miller Act bonds to improve the clarity of the 
section.
    Treasury made edits to Sec.  223.12(i) and (j) to clarify that 
Treasury will look to state law to determine whether a reinsurer 
applying to be a complementary reinsurer or alien reinsurer is 
recognized as a Reciprocal Jurisdiction Reinsurer, Accredited 
Reinsurer, or Certified Reinsurer, as appropriate. The NPRM stated that 
Treasury would look to the NAIC definition of those categories of 
reinsurer, but as Treasury requires reinsurers to submit proof that 
they have obtained recognition from at least one U.S. state, Treasury 
finds it more appropriate to reference state law that is based on the 
NAIC models. For similar reasons, Treasury made an edit in Sec.  
223.12(j) to clarify that an alien reinsurer must be domiciled in a 
non-U.S. jurisdiction that is recognized by a U.S. state as a Qualified 
Jurisdiction or Reciprocal Jurisdiction (provided that the Reciprocal 
Jurisdiction is not party to an in-force Covered Agreement as described 
in Sec.  223.12(i)). Treasury removed the language contained in the 
NPRM that an alien reinsurer's jurisdiction must be recognized as 
Qualified or Reciprocal by the NAIC, but Treasury also made an edit in 
Sec.  223.12(j) to clarify that Treasury may consider, if it deems 
appropriate, the NAIC lists of Qualified and Reciprocal Jurisdictions.
    Treasury also removed the word ``independent'' where it appeared 
before the term ``qualified actuary'' in Sec. Sec.  223.2(a) and (b) 
and 223.12(h). The application requirements in these sections require 
companies to submit reports by ``qualified actuary,'' as defined by the 
NAIC. Treasury removed the word ``independent'' to be clear the term 
``qualified actuary'' in part 223 should be understood as having the 
same meaning as the term used by the NAIC.
    Treasury updated the provision of Sec.  223.9(c)(1)(ii) discussing 
amounts ceded to parents, subsidiaries, or affiliates to better align 
with Treasury's pre-existing guidance on these cessions.

IV. Procedural Analysis

Regulatory Planning and Review

    The final rule does not meet the criteria for a ``significant'' 
regulatory action under Executive Order 12866, as amended. Therefore, 
the regulatory review procedures contained therein do not apply.

Administrative PAYGO

    The Administrative Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2023 (Pub. L. 118-5) does 
not apply to this rule because it does not increase direct spending.

Regulatory Flexibility Act

    It is hereby certified that the final rule will not have a 
significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. 
The final rule adopts criteria for recognition for reinsurers outlined 
in the Covered Agreements and in the NAIC Credit for Reinsurance Model 
Law and Regulation. Accordingly, reinsurance companies from relevant 
non-U.S. jurisdictions seeking to assume business from U.S. ceding 
insurers are already complying with similar financial requirements. 
Additionally, adherence to these requirements is only required for 
companies seeking recognition by Treasury; participation in the program 
is voluntary. The final rule changes regarding Treasury's financial 
analysis mainly codify existing requirements and policies, of which 
Treasury-certified sureties were already aware. Therefore, this final 
rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial 
number of small entities, and a regulatory flexibility analysis under 
the Regulatory Flexibility Act is not required.

Unfunded Mandates Act of 1995

    Section 202 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act of 1995, 2 U.S.C. 
1532, requires agencies to prepare budgetary impact statements before 
promulgating any rule likely to result in a Federal mandate that may 
result in the expenditure by state, local, and tribal governments, in 
the aggregate, or by the private sector, of $100 million or more in any 
one year. If a budgetary impact statement is required, section 205 of 
the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act also requires the agency to identify 
and consider a reasonable number of regulatory alternatives before 
promulgating the rule. This final rule will not result in expenditures 
by state, local, and tribal governments, or by the private sector, of 
$100 million of more in any one year. Accordingly, Treasury has not 
prepared a budgetary impact statement or specifically addressed any 
regulatory alternatives.

Paperwork Reduction Act

    The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (Act) (codified at 44 U.S.C. 
3507(d)) requires that collections of information prescribed in the 
proposed rules be submitted to the Office of Management and Budget 
(OMB) for review and approval. In accordance with that requirement, 
Treasury has submitted the collection of information contained in the 
notice of proposed rulemaking to OMB for approval under OMB Control 
Number 1530-0074. Under the Act, an agency may not conduct or sponsor, 
and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information 
unless it displays a valid OMB control number.
    The collection of information is contained in Sec.  223.12(i) and 
(j). The amendments require companies applying for initial recognition 
as a complementary reinsurer to submit to Treasury all information 
provided by the company or by the supervisory authority of the 
company's domiciliary jurisdiction to any U.S. state regulator in the 
two most recently completed calendar years. For renewal of such 
recognition, companies will submit all semi-annual and annual filing

[[Page 48831]]

information provided by the company or by the supervisory authority of 
the company's domiciliary jurisdiction to any U.S. state regulator in 
the most recently completed calendar year. Companies applying for 
initial recognition as an alien reinsurer will submit to Treasury all 
information provided to any U.S. state regulator in the two most 
recently completed calendar years. For renewal of such recognition, 
companies will submit all annual filing information provided to any 
U.S. state regulator in the most recently completed calendar year.

List of Subjects in 31 CFR Part 223

    Financial analysis, Reinsurance, Surety bonds.

    For the reasons set forth in the NPRM and in this preamble, 
Treasury amends 31 CFR part 223 as follows:

PART 223--SURETY COMPANIES DOING BUSINESS WITH THE UNITED STATES

0
1. The authority citation for part 223 continues to read as follows:

    Authority:  5 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 9304-9308.


0
2. Revise Sec.  223.1 to read as follows:


Sec.  223.1  Certificate of authority.

    (a) The regulations in this part govern the issuance, renewal, and 
revocation by the Secretary of the Treasury, acting through the U.S. 
Department of the Treasury, Bureau of the Fiscal Service (Treasury), of 
certificates of authority to bonding companies to do business with the 
United States as sureties on, or reinsurers of, Federal surety bonds 
(hereinafter ``bonds'' or ``obligations'') under the authority of 31 
U.S.C. 9304-9308 and this part, and the acceptance of such obligations.
    (b) A company applying for authority to write surety bonds in favor 
of the United States must be engaged in the business of writing surety 
or fidelity contracts at the time of its application to Treasury, 
whether or not also making contracts in other classes of insurance, but 
shall not be engaged in any type or class of business not authorized by 
its charter or the laws of the state in which the company is 
incorporated. It must be the intention of the company to engage 
actively in the execution of surety bonds or fidelity contracts in 
favor of the United States.
    (c) A company is not eligible for a certificate of authority if it 
only insures or reinsures risks of its parent, affiliated, or 
controlled unaffiliated business, or is deemed by Treasury to be 
primarily engaged in self-insurance.

0
3. Revise Sec.  223.2 to read as follows:


Sec.  223.2  Application for certificate of authority.

    (a) Application for issuance of certificate of authority. Every 
company not currently holding a certificate of authority wishing to 
apply for a certificate of authority shall submit an application to 
Treasury, c/o Surety Bonds Program, to the location, and in the manner, 
specified online at <a href="https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/">https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/</a>. The 
company shall file the following data with Treasury, and shall transmit 
therewith the fee in accordance with the provisions of Sec.  223.22:
    (1) Payment of the application fee in accordance with the 
provisions of Sec.  223.22;
    (2) A written request for a certificate of authority, signed by an 
officer of the company. This request must indicate:
    (i) Whether the company has previously applied for a certificate of 
authority from Treasury and, if so, the date and disposition of the 
previous application; and
    (ii) Whether Treasury has ever previously issued the company a 
certificate of authority, the reason for termination of its certificate 
of authority, and the applicable dates;
    (3) A certified copy of its charter or articles of incorporation 
showing that it is duly authorized to conduct the business referenced 
under 31 U.S.C. 9304(a)(2) and a statement from an officer of the 
company certifying that:
    (i) The company is authorized to transact surety business; and
    (ii) If granted a certificate of authority, there are no 
restrictions upon the company preventing it from being able to execute 
and guarantee bonds and undertakings in judicial proceedings, and 
guarantee contracts to which the United States is a party;
    (4) A listing of the names of the company's current officers and 
directors as of the date of application, including a biographical 
affidavit of each officer and director per instructions online at 
<a href="https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/">https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/</a>;
    (5) A memorandum setting forth:
    (i) A comprehensive statement of the company's method of operation, 
including, but not limited to, underwriting guidelines, claims 
adjustment procedures, reinsurance philosophy, control over collateral, 
and significant changes in operations or corporate structure that 
impact its financial statements;
    (ii) The classes of business in which it engages;
    (iii) Any special underwriting agreements, management agreements, 
or pooling agreements in force. Copies of such agreements must be 
included with the memorandum; and
    (iv) Present plans of the company as to the types of Federal bonds 
it intends to write, the anticipated annual premium volume of the 
Federal bonds, and the geographical areas in which it intends to write 
the Federal bonds;
    (6) A certified copy of a license from its state of incorporation 
and a completed Surety License Form (Form No. FS 2208);
    (7) A copy of the latest available report of its examination by its 
domiciliary State Insurance Department including a copy of company 
responses to any significant findings or recommendations;
    (8) The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) 
annual statement form with all Schedules and Exhibits completed, 
including copies of the NAIC File Upload, showing the last two full 
calendar years of the company's financial condition, including proof 
that the company has paid-up capital of at least $250,000 in cash or 
its equivalent, in the case of a stock insurance company, or has net 
assets of not less than $500,000 over and above all liabilities, in the 
case of a mutual insurance company. The annual financial statement's 
Jurat Page (only) is to be signed (facsimile or electronic signatures 
are acceptable) by the company President, Secretary, and a Notary 
Public who shall also affix a notary seal;
    (9) The Insurance Regulatory Information System (IRIS) ratio 
results, and an explanation for any ratios outside the normal ranges as 
established by the NAIC for the last two full calendar years preceding 
the date of application;
    (10) A written statement signed by the Insurance Commissioner or 
other proper financial officer of any state attesting that the company 
maintains on deposit legal investments having a current market value of 
not less than $100,000 for the protection of claimants, including all 
of its policyholders in the U.S.;
    (11) A completed Treasury Schedule F (Form No. TFS 6314), as 
referenced in Sec.  223.9(c) for the last two full calendar years 
preceding the date of application;
    (12) Copies of all reinsurance treaties currently in force along 
with a completed Summary of Reinsurance Treaties, per instructions 
provided online at <a href="https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/">https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/</a>;
    (13) A completed Schedule of Excess Risks form (Form No. FS 285-A) 
as of the date of the application;

[[Page 48832]]

    (14) A Statement of Actuarial Opinion as of the close of the last 
two full calendar years preceding the date of application provided by a 
qualified actuary, as defined by the NAIC, on the adequacy of all loss 
reserves with the scope and format of the statement also conforming to 
the requirements of the NAIC; and
    (15) Such other evidence as Treasury may, in its discretion, 
request to establish that the company is solvent, willing, and able to 
meet the continuing obligation to carry out its contracts. 
Additionally, Treasury will publish supplemental guidance annually 
regarding evidence it may require, submission methods, and format of 
the data listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (14) of this section.
    (b) Applications for renewal of certificate of authority. Every 
company wishing to apply for the annual renewal of its certificate of 
authority shall submit an application to Treasury, c/o Surety Bonds 
Program, to the location, and in the manner, specified online at 
<a href="https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/">https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/</a>. The company shall file 
the following data with Treasury, and shall transmit therewith the fee 
in accordance with the provisions of Sec.  223.22:
    (1) Payment of the application fee in accordance with the 
provisions of Sec.  223.22;
    (2) A completed Surety License Form (Form No. FS 2208) and a 
certified copy of the licenses from any states indicated on the Surety 
License Form that were not indicated on the company's most recent form;
    (3) A copy of the latest available report of its examination by its 
domiciliary State Insurance Department including a copy of company 
responses to any significant findings or recommendations;
    (4) A statement of its financial condition, as of the close of the 
preceding year, on the annual statement form of the NAIC with all 
Schedules and Exhibits completed, including copies of the NAIC File 
Upload, showing that it has paid-up capital of at least $250,000 in 
cash or its equivalent, in the case of a stock insurance company, or 
has net assets of not less than $500,000 over and above all 
liabilities, in the case of a mutual insurance company. The Annual 
Financial Statement's Jurat Page (only) is to be signed (facsimile or 
electronic signatures are acceptable) by the company President, 
Secretary, and a Notary Public who shall also affix a notary seal;
    (5) IRIS ratio results, and an explanation for any ratios outside 
the normal ranges as established by the NAIC, as of the close of the 
preceding year;
    (6) A completed Treasury Schedule F (Form No. TFS 6314), as 
referenced in Sec.  223.9(c) as of the close of the preceding year;
    (7) A completed Schedule of Excess Risks form (Form No. FS 285-A) 
as of the close of the preceding quarter;
    (8) A Statement of Actuarial Opinion as of the close of the 
preceding year provided by a qualified actuary, as defined by the NAIC, 
on the adequacy of all loss reserves with the scope and format of the 
statement also conforming to the requirements of the NAIC;
    (9) A listing of the names of the company's current officers and 
directors as of the close of the preceding year, including a 
biographical affidavit of any new officer and director for whom a 
biographical affidavit was not previously provided, per instructions 
online at <a href="https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/">https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/</a>;
    (10) A Report of Federal Business Written and/or Outstanding as of 
the close of the preceding year, per instructions provided online at 
<a href="https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/">https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/</a>; and
    (11) Such other evidence as Treasury may request to establish that 
the company is solvent, willing, and able to meet the continuing 
obligation to carry out its contracts. Additionally, Treasury will 
publish supplemental guidance annually regarding evidence it may 
require, submission methods, and format of the data listed in 
paragraphs (b)(1) through (10) of this section.

0
4. Revise Sec.  223.3 to read as follows:


Sec.  223.3  Issuance of certificates of authority.

    (a) In determining whether to issue or renew a certificate of 
authority, Treasury will evaluate the whole application package under 
Sec.  223.2, the financial condition of the company as determined under 
Sec.  223.9, the history of the company, and any further evidence or 
information that Treasury may, in its discretion, require the company 
to submit.
    (b) A certificate of authority will be effective for a term that 
expires on the last day of the next July. All statutory requirements 
and regulatory requirements under this part are continuing obligations, 
and any certificate issued is expressly subject to continuing 
compliance with such requirements. The certificate of authority will be 
renewed annually on the first day of August, provided that the company 
remains qualified under the law, the regulations in this part, and 
other relevant Treasury requirements, and the company submits the fee 
required under Sec.  223.22 by March 1st of each year.
    (c) If a company meets the requirements for a certificate of 
authority as an acceptable surety on Federal bonds in all respects 
except that it is limited to reinsurance business only, it may be 
issued a certificate of authority as a reinsuring company on Federal 
bonds. The fees for initial application and renewal of a certificate as 
a reinsuring company are the same as the fees for an initial 
application and renewal of a certificate of authority as an acceptable 
surety on Federal bonds.


Sec.  223.4  [Removed and Reserved]

0
5. Remove and reserve Sec.  223.4.

0
6. Revise Sec.  223.5 to read as follows:


Sec.  223.5  Business.

    A company holding a certificate of authority, or its agent, may 
only execute (sign or otherwise validate) a surety bond in favor of the 
United States in a state where it is licensed to do surety business. It 
need not be licensed in the state or other area in which the principal 
resides or where the contract is to be performed. The term other area 
includes the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the Northern 
Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands.


Sec.  223.6  [Removed and Reserved]

0
7. Remove and reserve Sec.  223.6.

0
8. Revise Sec.  223.7 to read as follows:


Sec.  223.7  Notification of changes.

    (a) Every company certified under this part or recognized as an 
admitted reinsurer pursuant to Sec.  223.12(h) must notify Treasury of 
changes that have a significant impact on its financial statements or 
solvency during the term of such certification or admission. Paragraphs 
(a)(1) through (4) of this section are not intended to be an exhaustive 
list of all such changes that Treasury may require to be reported and 
may evaluate as part of its ongoing analysis of the company. 
Additionally, Treasury will publish supplemental guidance on additional 
information that may be required. Every company certified under this 
part or recognized as an admitted reinsurer pursuant to Sec.  223.12(h) 
must notify Treasury of the following:
    (1) Capital changes. Companies must forward to Treasury, when 
available, approvals by the insurance authorities of the company's 
state regulator when changes in paid-up capital or contributions or 
withdrawals to surplus have occurred;

[[Page 48833]]

    (2) Changes in stock ownership. Stock insurance companies must 
provide a statement signed and sworn to by the Secretary or Assistant 
Secretary and by the Treasurer or Assistant Treasurer of the company 
each time any person (whether an individual, corporation, or 
organization of any kind) becomes owner of more than 5 percent of any 
class of outstanding stock issued by the company;
    (3) Mergers, transfer, assumption, and group/pool restructuring. 
Companies must notify Treasury at least six months prior to any merger, 
consolidation, transfer, assumption, material group or pool 
restructuring, or name changes in which the reporting company is 
involved. The company must furnish to Treasury copies or agreements or 
documents pertaining to the same, as approved by the insurance 
authorities of the company's state regulator; and
    (4) Charters and bylaws amendments. Whenever a company amends its 
charter or bylaws it must submit a certified copy of the amended 
charter or bylaws to Treasury.
    (b) Noncompliance with this section may result in Treasury denying 
a company's application for its certificate of authority, its 
recognition as an admitted reinsurer, renewal of its certificate of 
authority, or renewal of its recognition as an admitted reinsurer; or 
in Treasury revoking a company's certificate of authority or 
recognition as an admitted reinsurer.

0
9. Revise Sec.  223.8 to read as follows:


Sec.  223.8  Quarterly financial reporting requirements.

    Every company certified under this part is required to file the 
following each quarter with Treasury, c/o Surety Bonds Program, to the 
location, and in the manner, specified online at <a href="https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/">https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/</a>:
    (a) A statement of its financial condition, as of the close of the 
preceding quarter, on the quarterly statement form of the NAIC with all 
Schedules and Exhibits completed, including copies of the NAIC File 
Upload, showing that it has paid-up capital of at least $250,000 in 
cash or its equivalent, in the case of a stock insurance company, or 
has net assets of not less than $500,000 over and above all 
liabilities, in the case of a mutual insurance company. The Quarterly 
Financial Statement's Jurat Page (only) is to be signed (facsimile or 
electronic signatures are acceptable) by the company President, 
Secretary, and a Notary Public who shall also affix a notary seal;
    (b) A completed Schedule of Excess Risks form (Form No. FS 285-A) 
as of the close of the preceding quarter;
    (c) A Report of Federal Business Written and/or Outstanding as of 
the close of the preceding quarter, per instructions provided online at 
<a href="https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/">https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/</a>;
    (d) A copy of the latest available report of its examination by its 
domiciliary State Insurance Department including a copy of company 
responses to any significant findings or recommendations;
    (e) A listing of the names of the company's current officers and 
directors as of the close of the preceding quarter, including a 
biographical affidavit of each new officer and director per 
instructions online at <a href="https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/">https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/</a>; 
and
    (f) Such other evidence as Treasury may request to establish that 
the company is solvent, willing, and able to meet the continuing 
obligation to carry out its contracts. Additionally, Treasury will 
publish supplemental guidance annually regarding evidence it may 
require, submission methods, and format of the data listed in 
paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section along with the due dates for 
quarterly reporting.

0
10. Revise Sec.  223.9 to read as follows:


Sec.  223.9  Determination of financial condition and other required 
information.

    In determining the financial condition of every company applying 
for a certificate of authority or renewal of a certificate of authority 
under this part, Treasury will generally compute the company's assets 
and liabilities in accordance with paragraphs (a) through (f) of this 
section, provided that Treasury may exercise discretion in valuing the 
assets and liabilities of such companies. While paragraphs (a) through 
(f) specify how Treasury will value certain classes of assets and 
liabilities and the analysis that Treasury will perform, they are not 
intended to be an exhaustive list of all assets and liabilities that 
Treasury may require to be reported and may evaluate as part of this 
analysis. Additionally, Treasury will annually publish supplemental 
guidance on the financial analysis performed by Treasury, including 
applicable ratios and acceptable ranges for ratios.
    (a) Assets--(1) General criteria for admissibility. The cash 
capital and other funds included in the financial statement must be 
safely invested in accordance with the laws of the state in which the 
company is incorporated. Admissible assets must be reported in U.S. 
Dollars and are generally limited to investments in cash, cash 
equivalents, short term investments, mortgage loans (within certain 
limits), and real property necessary for the conduct of a company's 
business. In cases where an investment (other than U.S. Government 
securities and securities of affiliates or subsidiaries) exceeds 10 
percent of the total admitted assets, Treasury may require additional 
supporting documentation as needed on a case-by-case basis in order for 
the asset to be admissible. Additionally, Treasury considers normal 
account balances (such as, but not limited to, investment income due 
and accrued, agents' balances and premiums receivables, reinsurance 
recoverables on paid losses, and funds held by or deposited with ceding 
reinsuring companies) to be admissible provided they meet Treasury's 
standards. In order to be admissible, normal account balances may be 
evaluated for transactional substance, quality, and liquidity. Some 
assets that may be admissible under codification and/or certain state 
permitted practices may require supporting documentation as needed on a 
case-by-case basis in order to be admissible under Treasury's criteria. 
Assets resulting from reinsurance transactions must meet the credit for 
reinsurance standards listed under paragraph (c) of this section.
    (2) Securities. Bonds, unaffiliated common stocks, and unaffiliated 
preferred stocks must be valued and reported in accordance with the 
NAIC's Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual (as updated or 
amended from time to time) and the NAIC Securities Valuation Office 
(SVO). Those with an investment grade designation will be admissible 
and those with a non-investment grade designation will be considered on 
a case-by-case basis.
    (i) All other securities. The value of all other securities should 
be valued as of December 31 and reported in U.S. Dollars. For 
securities that do not have a SVO designation or have a SVO non-
investment grade designation and are significant for Treasury purposes, 
Treasury may consider, if it deems appropriate, other relevant data 
(e.g., prospectus, marketability/liquidity information, internal 
investment strategies/philosophies) and perform an analysis to 
determine whether the securities meet Treasury's criteria for 
admissibility.
    (ii) Securities of controlled companies. Investments in 
subsidiaries, controlled entities, and affiliated entities must be 
reported in accordance with the NAIC Accounting Practices and 
Procedures Manual (as updated or amended from time to time).

[[Page 48834]]

    (A) Other insurance companies. Companies owning securities of other 
insurance companies, which are under the same direction and control as 
the reporting company, must furnish copies of the NAIC File Upload of 
the subsidiaries. The assets of these subsidiaries will be analyzed 
according to the criteria set forth in this section.
    (B) Non-insurance companies. Companies owning securities of non-
insurance companies, which are under the same direction and control as 
the reporting company, must furnish copies of independently audited 
financial statements of such companies as of the reporting date.
    (3) Real estate and mortgages. Only real estate essential to the 
operating needs of the company for conducting its business, and 
conventional first mortgage loans on unencumbered, improved, or 
productive real estate located within the United States, are 
admissible. These must be reported in accordance with the NAIC's 
Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual (as updated or amended from 
time to time). The real estate and mortgaged property must be supported 
by an appraisal report that includes the information and computations 
normally used in arriving at a competent appraised value. In instances 
where the aggregate values exceed 20 percent of the policyholders' 
surplus, Treasury may, if it deems appropriate, require additional 
supporting documentation.
    (b) Minimum bail reserve requirements. Companies transacting surety 
bail business must submit a schedule showing bail premiums in force, 
bail liability, and the amount of any associated unearned premium 
reserve.
    (c) Reinsurance. (1) Companies are required to submit Treasury 
Schedule F (Treasury Form No. TFS 6314) reflecting information in the 
company's annual statements. Credit for reinsurance may be taken (to 
the extent specified in the referenced provisions of Sec.  223.12) for 
reinsurance in all classes of risk provided that it is ceded to the 
following companies:
    (i) Companies holding a current certificate of authority from 
Treasury;
    (ii) U.S. domiciled non-Treasury certified or recognized parents, 
subsidiaries, and/or affiliates if Treasury determines that the parent, 
subsidiary, and/or affiliate is financially solvent;
    (iii) Admitted reinsurers as defined under Sec.  223.12(h);
    (iv) Complementary reinsurers as defined under Sec.  223.12(i);
    (v) Alien reinsurers as defined under Sec.  223.12(j), up to the 
extent credit is allowed for reinsurance ceded to the alien reinsurer 
by the ceding company's state of domicile (subject to paragraph (c)(3) 
of this section); and
    (vi) An instrumentality or agency of the United States that is 
permitted by Federal law or regulation to execute reinsurance 
contracts.
    (2) Treasury may give credit for reinsurance not covered in 
paragraph (c)(1) of this section, to the extent of funds withheld or 
letters of credit or trust agreements from such reinsurers, provided 
the company advises Treasury and provides sufficient documentation of 
the amount of funds held, letters of credit posted or funds secured in 
trust for each company. Treasury may also give credit for trust account 
assets associated with multi-beneficiary trust agreements established 
and maintained in the United States by overseas accredited or trusteed 
reinsurers listed online at <a href="https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/">https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/</a>, to the extent the relevant ceded business is covered by these 
trust account assets.
    (3) If, after its review of the financial documentation submitted 
by an alien reinsurer recognized pursuant to Sec.  223.12(j) and of the 
financial documentation submitted by the ceding company, Treasury 
determines that either company may be unable to carry out its 
obligations, Treasury may require additional collateral for the ceding 
company to receive credit for reinsurance to the extent credit is given 
for reinsurance ceded to the alien reinsurer by the ceding company's 
state of domicile.
    (d) Risk based capital (RBC). Treasury uses RBC in determining the 
financial solvency of companies, together with such companies' overall 
financial results, ratios, and trends. Companies must maintain RBC 
results that fall within acceptable ranges as established by the NAIC 
or provide a satisfactory explanation for results that do not.
    (e) Financial ratios. Treasury uses the NAIC IRIS ratios to measure 
companies' solvency, profitability, and liquidity. Companies must 
maintain results for these ratios that fall within acceptable ranges as 
established by the NAIC or provide a satisfactory explanation for 
results that do not.
    (f) Financial results and trends. Treasury analyzes financial 
results from annual and quarterly financial statements required under 
this part for evidence of negative financial results or trends. 
Treasury may require companies to submit additional documentation or 
explanation regarding financial statements with evidence of negative 
financial results or trends such as decreasing policyholders' surplus, 
large underwriting losses, negative cashflows, or unsatisfactory IRIS 
ratio results.
    (g) Noncompliance. Noncompliance with paragraphs (a) through (f) of 
this section may result in Treasury denying a company's application for 
its certificate of authority, or renewal of its certificate, or in 
Treasury revoking a company's certificate.

0
11. Revise Sec.  223.10 to read as follows:


Sec.  223.10  Limitation of risk.

    (a) Except as provided in Sec.  223.11, no company holding a 
certificate of authority shall underwrite any single risk on any bond 
or policy on behalf of any individual, firm, association, or 
corporation, whether or not the United States is interested as a party 
thereto, the amount of which is greater than 10 percent of the paid-up 
capital and surplus of such company, as determined by Treasury. Such 
figure (i.e., 10 percent of a company's paid-up capital and surplus as 
determined by Treasury) is hereinafter referred to as the underwriting 
limitation. For purposes of this part, single risk means the total risk 
under one bond or policy regardless of the number of individual risks 
under that bond or policy.
    (b) In determining the underwriting limitation, the full penalty of 
any surety and fidelity obligation will be regarded as the liability, 
and no offset will be allowed on account of any estimate of risk that 
is less than such full penalty, except in the following cases:
    (1) Appeal bonds; in which case the liability will be regarded as 
the amount of the judgment appealed from, plus 10 percent of said 
amount to cover interest and costs;
    (2) Bonds of executors, administrators, trustees, guardians, and 
other fiduciaries, where the penalty of the bond or other obligation is 
fixed in excess of the estimated value of the estate; in which cases 
the estimated value of the estate, upon which the penalty of the bond 
was fixed, will be regarded as the liability;
    (3) Indemnifying agreements executed by sole heirs or beneficiaries 
of an estate releasing the surety from liability;
    (4) Contract bonds given in excess of the amount of the contract; 
in which cases the amount of the contract will be regarded as the 
liability; or
    (5) Bonds for banks or trust companies as principals, conditioned 
to repay moneys on deposit, whereby pursuant to any law or decree of a 
court, the amount to be deposited shall be less than the penalty of the 
bond; in which cases the maximum amount on deposit at any one time will 
be regarded as the liability.

0
12. Revise Sec.  223.11 to read as follows:

[[Page 48835]]

Sec.  223.11  Limitation of risk: Protective methods.

    In the case of risks otherwise in excess of a company's limitation 
of risk prescribed in Sec.  223.10, compliance may be achieved by the 
following methods:
    (a) Coinsurance. Two or more companies holding a certificate of 
authority may underwrite a single risk on any bond or policy, the 
amount of which does not exceed their aggregate underwriting 
limitations. Each company must limit its liability upon the face of the 
bond or policy to an amount which must be within its respective 
underwriting limitation.
    (b) Reinsurance--(1) Bonds running to the United States. (i) With 
respect to all bonds running to the United States to the extent that 
its excess liability is not addressed through another protective method 
specified in this section, a company writing such bonds must reinsure 
liability in excess of the underwriting limitation with one or more 
companies holding a certificate of authority from Treasury within 45 
days from the date of execution and delivery of the bond. Such 
reinsurance shall not be in excess of the underwriting limitation of 
the reinsuring company. Federal agencies may accept a bond from the 
direct writing company in satisfaction of the total bond requirement 
even though it may exceed the direct writing company's underwriting 
limitation. Within the 45-day period, the direct writing company shall 
furnish to the Federal agency any requested reinsurance agreements. 
However, a Federal agency may, in its discretion, require that the 
direct writing company obtain reinsurance within a lesser period than 
45 days, and may require the direct writing company to provide 
completely executed reinsurance agreements before making a final 
determination that any bond is acceptable.
    (ii) For bonds required to be furnished to the United States by the 
Miller Act (40 U.S.C. 3131, as amended), in addition to complying with 
the requirements of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, the direct 
writing company must execute the following reinsurance agreement forms: 
Standard Form 273 (Reinsurance Agreement for a Bonds Statute 
Performance Bond), Standard Form 274 (Reinsurance Agreement for a Bonds 
Statute Payment Bond), and Standard Form 275 (Reinsurance Agreement in 
Favor of the United States). These forms are available on the General 
Services Administration website at <a href="http://www.gsa.gov">www.gsa.gov</a>.
    (2) Bonds not running to the United States. A company holding a 
certificate of authority from Treasury writing risks covered by bonds 
or policies not running to the United States, to the extent that its 
excess liability is not addressed through another protective method 
specified in this section, must reinsure liability in excess of its 
underwriting limitation within 45 days from the date of execution and 
delivery of the bond or policy with any of:
    (i) One or more companies holding a certificate of authority from 
Treasury;
    (ii) One or more companies recognized as a reinsurer in accordance 
with Sec.  223.12, except for any reinsurer who is required by a U.S. 
state to post 100 percent collateral;
    (iii) A pool, association, etc., to the extent that it is composed 
of such companies; or
    (iv) An instrumentality or agency of the United States that is 
permitted by Federal law or regulation to execute reinsurance 
contracts.
    (3) Limitation. No certificate-holding company may cede to a 
reinsuring company recognized under Sec.  223.12 any single risk in 
excess of 10 percent of the latter company's paid-up capital and 
surplus.
    (c) Other methods. With respect to all risks other than bonds 
required to be furnished to the United States by the Miller Act (40 
U.S.C. 3131, as amended), which must be either coinsured or reinsured 
in accordance with paragraph (a) or (b)(1)(ii) of this section 
respectively, the excess liability may be protected:
    (1) By the deposit with the company in pledge, or by conveyance to 
it in trust for its protection, of assets admitted by Treasury, the 
current market value of which is at least equal to the liability in 
excess of its underwriting limitation. Treasury may, on a case-by-case 
basis, consider a letter of credit provided by a financial institution 
to be adequate security under this paragraph (c) if Treasury can verify 
that the assets referenced in the letter of credit are pledged 
exclusively to secure the excess risk, and if the letter of credit 
meets other requirements Treasury might prescribe. Assets used to 
protect excess liability pursuant to this paragraph (c) cannot also be 
used to obtain credit for reinsurance pursuant to Sec.  223.9(c).; or
    (2) If such obligation was incurred on behalf of or on account of a 
fiduciary holding property in a trust capacity, by a joint control 
agreement providing that the whole or a sufficient portion of the 
property so held may not be disposed of or pledged in any way without 
the consent of the insuring company.

0
13. Revise Sec.  223.12 to read as follows:


Sec.  223.12  Recognition as reinsurer.

    (a) Use of recognized reinsurers. Companies holding a certificate 
of authority may:
    (1) Receive credit for reinsurance ceded to a reinsurer recognized 
pursuant to this section, as described in Sec.  223.9(c); and
    (2) Protect liability in excess of their underwriting limit on 
risks not running to the United States by reinsuring excess liability 
with a reinsurer recognized pursuant to this section.
    (b) Application. Every company applying for recognition by Treasury 
as one of the categories of reinsurers in paragraphs (c) through (j) of 
this section, or annual renewal of such recognition, shall submit an 
application to Treasury, c/o Surety Bonds Program, to the location, and 
in the manner, specified online at <a href="https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/">https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/</a>. The applicant company must submit the documentation and 
must meet the requirements as outlined in this section and in 
supplemental guidance published by Treasury on its website.
    (c) Treasury recognition. Recognition by Treasury will be effective 
for a term that expires on the last day of the following October. A 
list of reinsuring companies so recognized by Treasury will be 
published online at <a href="https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/">https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/</a>.
    (d) Notice to Treasury. Each company recognized pursuant to this 
section shall immediately notify Treasury if a U.S. state takes action 
to suspend or revoke the company's license or its status or eligibility 
as an Accredited Reinsurer, Certified Reinsurer, or Reciprocal 
Jurisdiction Reinsurer, or if the company notifies a U.S. state that a 
supervisory authority in its domiciliary jurisdiction takes regulatory 
action against it for serious noncompliance with applicable law (as 
determined by the supervisory authority in its domiciliary 
jurisdiction).
    (e) Eligibility. A company is not eligible for recognition under 
this section if it only insures or reinsures risks of its parent, 
affiliated, or controlled unaffiliated business, or is deemed by 
Treasury to be primarily engaged in self-insurance.
    (f) Guidance. Treasury may issue supplemental guidance regarding 
the timing, form, content, and its analysis of the submissions required 
pursuant to this section. Such guidance will be posted on its website.
    (g) Noncompliance. Noncompliance with the requirements of this 
section may result in a company's application for recognition, or for 
renewal of its recognition, being denied.

[[Page 48836]]

    (h) Admitted reinsurers--(1) Application for recognition by U.S. 
company. Any company organized under the laws of the United States or 
of any state thereof, wishing to apply for recognition as an admitted 
reinsurer of surety companies doing business with the United States, 
shall submit an application to Treasury, c/o Surety Bonds Program, to 
the location, and in the manner, specified online at <a href="https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/">https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/</a>. The company shall file the 
following data with Treasury and shall transmit therewith the fee in 
accordance with the provisions of Sec.  223.22:
    (i) Payment of the application fee in accordance with the 
provisions of Sec.  223.22;
    (ii) A written request for recognition as an admitted reinsurer, 
signed by an officer of the company. This request must indicate:
    (A) The reason for applying for recognition;
    (B) Whether the company has ever previously applied for recognition 
as an admitted reinsurer, whether Treasury approved the application, 
and the applicable dates; and
    (C) If Treasury previously approved the company for recognition as 
an admitted reinsurer, the reason for termination of its recognition 
and the applicable date;
    (iii) A certified copy of its charter or articles of incorporation 
with all amendments as of the date of application showing the legal 
name of the company and that it is authorized to write reinsurance;
    (iv) A listing of the names of the company's current officers and 
directors as of the date of application, including a biographical 
affidavit of each officer and director per instructions online at 
<a href="https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/">https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/</a>;
    (v) A certified copy of a license from any one state in which it 
has been authorized to do business showing its authority to write 
reinsurance and/or other lines of insurance;
    (vi) A copy of the latest available report of its examination by 
its domiciliary State Insurance Department including a copy of company 
responses to any significant findings or recommendations;
    (vii) Annual statements of its financial condition, as of the close 
of the last two full years preceding the date of application, on the 
annual statement form of the NAIC with all Schedules and Exhibits 
completed, including copies of the NAIC File Upload, showing that it 
has paid-up capital of at least $250,000 in cash or its equivalent, in 
the case of a stock insurance company, or has net assets of not less 
than $500,000 over and above all liabilities, in the case of a mutual 
insurance company. The Annual Financial Statement's Jurat Page (only) 
is to be signed (facsimile signatures are acceptable) by the company 
President, Secretary, and a Notary Public who shall also affix a notary 
seal;
    (viii) IRIS ratio results, and an explanation for any ratios 
outside the normal ranges as established by the NAIC for the last two 
years preceding the date of application;
    (ix) A memorandum setting forth the company's method of operation, 
including lines of business written, the company's underwriting and 
claims philosophy, and significant changes in the company's operations 
or corporate structure that impact its financial statements;
    (x) A completed Treasury Schedule F (Form No. TFS 6314), as 
referenced in Sec.  223.9(c) for two years preceding the date of 
application;
    (xi) A Statement of Actuarial Opinion as of the close of the last 
two years preceding the date of application provided by a qualified 
actuary, as defined by the NAIC, on the adequacy of all loss reserves 
with the scope and format of the statement also conforming to the 
requirements of the NAIC; and
    (xii) Such other evidence as Treasury may request to establish that 
the company is solvent and able to meet the continuing obligation to 
carry out its contracts. Treasury will publish supplemental guidance 
annually regarding evidence it may require, submission methods, and 
format of the data listed in paragraphs (h)(1)(i) through (xi) of this 
section.
    (2) Application by a U.S. branch. A U.S. branch of a non-U.S. 
company applying for recognition as an admitted reinsurer must file the 
following data with Treasury, and shall transmit therewith the fee in 
accordance with the provisions of Sec.  223.22:
    (i) The submissions listed in paragraphs (h)(1)(i) through (xii) of 
this section, except that the financial statement of such branch shall 
show that it has net assets of not less than $250,000 over and above 
all liabilities; and
    (ii) Evidence satisfactory to Treasury to establish that it has on 
deposit in the United States not less than $250,000 available to its 
policyholders and creditors in the United States.
    (3) Application for renewal of recognition as an admitted 
reinsurer. Any company recognized pursuant to paragraph (h)(1) or (2) 
of this section wishing to apply for renewal of its recognition shall 
submit an application to Treasury, c/o Surety Bonds Program, to the 
location, and in the manner, specified online at <a href="https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/">https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/</a>. The company must file the 
following data with Treasury and shall transmit therewith the fee in 
accordance with the provisions of Sec.  223.22:
    (i) Payment of the application fee in accordance with the 
provisions of Sec.  223.22;
    (ii) A copy of the latest available report of its examination by 
its domiciliary State Insurance Department including a copy of company 
responses to any significant findings or recommendations;
    (iii) Annual statements of its financial condition, as of the close 
of the preceding year, on the annual statement form of the NAIC with 
all Schedules and Exhibits completed, including copies of the NAIC File 
Upload, showing that it has paid-up capital of at least $250,000 in 
cash or its equivalent, in the case of a stock insurance company, or 
has net assets of not less than $500,000 over and above all 
liabilities, in the case of a mutual insurance company. The Annual 
Financial Statement's Jurat Page (only) is to be signed (facsimile 
signatures are acceptable) by the company President, Secretary, and a 
Notary Public who shall also affix a notary seal;
    (iv) IRIS ratio results, and an explanation for any ratios outside 
the normal ranges as established by the NAIC as of the close of the 
preceding year;
    (v) A completed Treasury Schedule F (Form No. TFS 6314), as 
referenced in Sec.  223.9(c) as of the close of the preceding year;
    (vi) A Statement of Actuarial Opinion as of the close of the 
preceding year provided by a qualified actuary, as defined by the NAIC, 
on the adequacy of all loss reserves with the scope and format of the 
statement also conforming to the requirements of the NAIC;
    (vii) A listing of the names of the company's current officers and 
directors as of the close of the preceding year, including a 
biographical affidavit of each new officer and director per 
instructions online at <a href="https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/">https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/</a>; 
and
    (viii) Such other evidence as Treasury may request to establish 
that the company is solvent and able to meet the continuing obligation 
to carry out its contracts. Treasury will publish supplemental guidance 
annually regarding evidence it may require, submission methods, and 
format of the data listed in paragraphs (h)(3)(i) through (vii) of this 
section.

[[Page 48837]]

    (i) Complementary reinsurers. Any company may apply for recognition 
as a complementary reinsurer or annual renewal of such recognition 
provided the company is licensed to write reinsurance by and has its 
head office in (or is domiciled in) a non-U.S. jurisdiction that is 
subject to an in-force Covered Agreement entered into with the United 
States pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 313-314, which Covered Agreement addresses 
the elimination, under specified conditions, of collateral requirements 
as a condition for entering into any reinsurance agreement with a 
ceding insurer domiciled in a U.S. state or for allowing the ceding 
insurer to recognize credit for reinsurance. To obtain recognition as a 
complementary reinsurer, the company must submit to Treasury the fee in 
accordance with the provisions of Sec.  223.22 and must:
    (1) Meet and maintain all capital and surplus, solvency, and market 
conduct requirements under the applicable Covered Agreement;
    (2) Be recognized by at least one U.S. state as a Reciprocal 
Jurisdiction Reinsurer, as defined by the state's credit for 
reinsurance law or regulation based on the NAIC's Credit for 
Reinsurance Model Law and Regulation, and submit proof of such 
recognition; and
    (3) Submit to Treasury:
    (i) For initial applications for recognition, all information 
provided by the company or by the supervisory authority of the 
company's domiciliary jurisdiction to any U.S. state regulator in the 
two most recently completed calendar years.
    (ii) For applications for renewal of recognition, all semi-annual 
and annual filing information provided by the company or by the 
supervisory authority of the company's domiciliary jurisdiction to any 
U.S. state regulator in the most recently completed calendar year.
    (iii) Payment of the application fee in accordance with the 
provisions of Sec.  223.22.
    (j) Alien reinsurers. Any company may apply for recognition or 
annual renewal of such recognition as an alien reinsurer, provided it 
is licensed to write reinsurance by, and has its head office or 
domicile in, a non-U.S. jurisdiction that is recognized by a U.S. state 
as a Qualified Jurisdiction or as a Reciprocal Jurisdiction, provided 
that the Reciprocal Jurisdiction is not party to an in-force Covered 
Agreement as described in paragraph (i) of this section. Treasury may 
also consider, if it deems appropriate, the lists of Qualified and 
Reciprocal Jurisdictions most recently published through the relevant 
NAIC committee when determining a company's eligibility for recognition 
pursuant to this paragraph (j). To obtain such recognition, the company 
must submit to Treasury the fee in accordance with the provisions of 
Sec.  223.22 and must:
    (1) Be recognized by at least one U.S. state as an ``Accredited 
Reinsurer,'' ``Certified Reinsurer,'' or a ``Reciprocal Jurisdiction 
Reinsurer,'' as defined by the state's credit for reinsurance law or 
regulation based on the NAIC's Credit for Reinsurance Model Law and 
Regulation, and submit proof of such recognition;
    (2) Meet and maintain all capital and surplus, market conduct, and 
other requirements for eligibility as an ``Accredited Reinsurer,'' 
``Certified Reinsurer,'' or ``Reciprocal Jurisdiction Reinsurer'' in 
accordance with the law and regulation of all U.S. states granting it 
such recognition; and
    (3) Submit to Treasury:
    (i) For initial applications for recognition, all information 
provided to any U.S. state regulator in the two most recently completed 
calendar years.
    (ii) For applications for renewal of such recognition, all annual 
filing information provided to any U.S. state regulator in the most 
recently completed calendar year.
    (iii) Payment of the application fee in accordance with the 
provisions of Sec.  223.22.


Sec.  223.13  [Removed and Reserved]

0
14. Remove and reserve Sec.  223.13.


Sec.  223.14  [Removed and Reserved]

0
15. Remove and reserve Sec.  223.14.

0
16. Revise Sec.  223.15 to read as follows:


Sec.  223.15  Paid-up capital and surplus for Treasury rating purposes; 
how determined.

    Treasury determines the amount of paid-up capital and surplus of 
any company holding or seeking a certificate of authority or recognized 
(or seeking recognition) as an admitted reinsurer pursuant to Sec.  
223.12(h) on an insurance accounting basis under the regulations in 
this part, from the company's financial statements and other 
information, or by such examination of the company at its own expense 
as Treasury may deem appropriate.

0
17. Amend Sec.  223.16 by revising the first three sentences to read as 
follows:


Sec.  223.16  List of certificate holding companies.

    A list of certificate holding companies is published annually as of 
August 1 in Department Circular No. 570, Companies Holding Certificates 
of Authority as Acceptable Sureties on Federal Bonds and as Acceptable 
Reinsuring Companies, with information as to underwriting limitations, 
areas in which listed sureties are licensed to transact surety 
business, and other details. If Treasury shall take any exceptions to 
the financial statements submitted by a company or other information 
pertinent to the company's financial solvency, before issuing 
Department Circular 570, Treasury shall give a company due notice of 
such exceptions. Copies of the Circular are available at <a href="https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/list-certified-companies.html">https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/list-certified-companies.html</a>, or 
from the Surety Bonds Program, upon request. * * *

0
18. Amend Sec.  223.17 by revising paragraphs (b)(1)(iii) and (iv) to 
read as follows:


Sec.  223.17  Acceptance and non-acceptance of bonds.

* * * * *
    (b) * * *
    (1) * * *
    (iii) Provide the company with an opportunity to rebut the stated 
reasons or cause; and
    (iv) Provide the company with an opportunity to cure the stated 
reasons or cause.
* * * * *

0
19. Amend Sec.  223.18 by revising paragraphs (a) introductory text and 
(a)(1) to read as follows:


Sec.  223.18  Revocation.

    (a) Treasury may initiate a revocation proceeding against a 
Treasury-certified company in one of two ways:
    (1) Treasury, of its own accord, under Sec.  223.19, may initiate 
revocation proceedings against the company when it has reason to 
believe that the company is not complying with 31 U.S.C. 9304-9308 and/
or the regulations under this part; or
* * * * *

0
20. Amend Sec.  223.19 by revising the introductory text and paragraph 
(b)(2) to read as follows:


Sec.  223.19  Treasury-initiated revocation proceedings.

    Whenever Treasury has reason to believe that a company is not 
complying with the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 9304-9308 and/or the 
regulations under this part, including but not limited to a failure to 
satisfy corporate and financial standards, Treasury shall:
* * * * *
    (b) * * *
    (2) The company responded, was provided an opportunity to 
demonstrate or achieve compliance, and failed to do so.

[[Page 48838]]


0
21. Amend Sec.  223.20 by revising paragraphs (b)(1) and (h)(8) and (9) 
to read as follows:


Sec.  223.20  Revocation proceedings initiated by Treasury upon receipt 
of an agency complaint.

* * * * *
    (b) * * *
    (1) The agency has determined, consistent with agency authorities, 
the principal is in default on the obligation covered by the bond. 
Alternatively, if the default has been litigated, documentation 
indicating a court of competent jurisdiction has determined the 
principal is in default;
* * * * *
    (h) * * *
    (8) The formal adjudication standards under the Administrative 
Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 554, 556, and 557, do not apply to the informal 
hearing or adjudication process.
    (9) Treasury may promulgate additional procedural guidance 
governing the conduct of informal hearings.
* * * * *

0
22. Revise Sec.  223.21 to read as follows:


Sec.  223.21  Reinstatement.

    If, after one year from the date that Treasury notifies the company 
of its decision to decline to renew or revoke the certificate of 
authority of a company under this part, the company can demonstrate 
that the basis for the non-renewal or revocation has been cured, as 
determined by Treasury in its discretion, and that it can comply with, 
and does meet, all continuing requirements for certification under 31 
U.S.C. 9304-9308 and this part, the company may submit an application 
to Treasury for reinstatement or reissuance of a certificate of 
authority, which will be granted without prejudice if all such 
requirements are met. Treasury may waive the one year waiting period 
for good cause shown, as determined by Treasury in its sole discretion.

0
23. Revise Sec.  223.22 to read as follows:


Sec.  223.22  Fees for service of the Treasury Department.

    (a) Fees shall be imposed and collected, for the services listed in 
paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section that are performed by 
Treasury, regardless of whether the action requested is granted or 
denied. An online payment portal is provided at <a href="https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/">https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/</a>. The amount of the fee will be 
based on which of the following categories of service is requested:
    (1) Examination of a company's application for a certificate of 
authority as an acceptable surety on Federal bonds or for a certificate 
of authority as an acceptable reinsuring company on such bonds (see 
Sec.  223.2(a));
    (2) Examination of a company's application for recognition as an 
admitted reinsurer of surety companies doing business with the United 
States (see Sec.  223.12(h));
    (3) Examination of a company's application for recognition as a 
complementary reinsurer of surety companies doing business with the 
United States (see Sec.  223.12(i));
    (4) Examination of a company's application for recognition as an 
alien reinsurer of surety companies doing business with the United 
States (see Sec.  223.12(j));
    (5) Determination of a company's continuing qualifications for 
annual renewal of its certificate of authority (see Sec.  223.2(b)); or
    (6) Determination of a company's continuing qualifications for 
annual renewal of its recognition as an admitted reinsurer, 
complementary reinsurer, or alien reinsurer (see Sec.  223.12).
    (b) In a given year a uniform fee will be collected from every 
company requesting a particular category of service, e.g., 
determination of a company's continuing qualifications for annual 
renewal of its certificate of authority. However, Treasury reserves the 
right to redetermine the amounts of fees annually. Fees are determined 
in accordance with Office of Management and Budget Circular A-25, as 
amended.
    (c) Specific fee information may be obtained from the Surety Bonds 
Program, or online at <a href="https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/files/surety-bonds/user-fees.pdf">https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/files/surety-bonds/user-fees.pdf</a>. In addition, a notice of the amount of a fee 
referred to in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section will be 
published in the Federal Register as each change in such fee is made.

    By the Department of the Treasury.
David Lebryk,
Fiscal Assistant Secretary.
[FR Doc. 2024-12491 Filed 6-7-24; 8:45 am]
BILLING CODE 4810-AS-P


</pre><script data-cfasync="false" src="/cdn-cgi/scripts/5c5dd728/cloudflare-static/email-decode.min.js"></script></body>
</html>